README.md, before:

# Website Audit Runner

Reusable URL audit script for:
- Lighthouse (performance, accessibility, best practices, SEO)
- Pa11y accessibility checks (WCAG2AA)
- Broken internal/external link scan
- Playwright smoke checks (console errors, page errors, HTTP 4xx/5xx)
- Optional security checks (`--security`): header presence, TLS cert, optional OWASP ZAP baseline via Docker

## Default target
`https://example.com/`

## Authorization / Responsible Use
This tool can perform security-oriented scanning (for example, OWASP ZAP when `--security` is enabled).

Only run it against websites and systems you own or where you have explicit written permission to test. Unauthorized scanning may be illegal and can trigger abuse alerts.

## Usage
From this folder:

```bash
chmod +x audit.sh
./audit.sh
```

### Arguments
The script supports these arguments:

- `--summary`: Print a compact summary at the end (scores + issue counts).
- `--security`: Run extra security checks (HTTP header presence, TLS cert info, and OWASP ZAP scan).
- `-h`, `--help`: Show built-in help/usage.
- `[url]`: Optional target URL. Defaults to the “Default target” above.

Notes:
- Flags can be combined in any order: `./audit.sh --security --summary <url>`.
- If you provide multiple URLs, the last one “wins”.

### Examples
Default URL:

```bash
./audit.sh
```

Override URL:

```bash
./audit.sh https://example.com/
```

Help:

```bash
./audit.sh --help
```

Summary view (scores + issue counts):

```bash
./audit.sh --summary
./audit.sh --summary https://example.com/
```

Security mode (includes ZAP; requires Docker for the container baseline scan, otherwise uses local `zap.sh` if present):

```bash
./audit.sh --security
./audit.sh --security https://example.com/
```

Security + summary:

```bash
./audit.sh --security --summary
./audit.sh --security --summary https://example.com/
```

## Output
Each run creates a timestamped folder in `reports/` with:
- Lighthouse HTML and JSON reports
- `pa11y.txt`
- `broken-links.txt`
- `smoke.txt`
- `homepage.png`
- `security.txt` (when `--security` is used)
- `zap.txt` and `zap/` artifacts (when `--security` and Docker are available)

Commit message:

Document Docker setup for OWASP ZAP baseline

README.md, after:

# Website Audit Runner

Reusable URL audit script for:
- Lighthouse (performance, accessibility, best practices, SEO)
- Pa11y accessibility checks (WCAG2AA)
- Broken internal/external link scan
- Playwright smoke checks (console errors, page errors, HTTP 4xx/5xx)
- Optional security checks (`--security`): header presence, TLS cert, optional OWASP ZAP baseline via Docker

## Default target
`https://example.com/`

## Authorization / Responsible Use
This tool can perform security-oriented scanning (for example, OWASP ZAP when `--security` is enabled).

Only run it against websites and systems you own or where you have explicit written permission to test. Unauthorized scanning may be illegal and can trigger abuse alerts.

## Usage
From this folder:

```bash
chmod +x audit.sh
./audit.sh
```

### Arguments
The script supports these arguments:

- `--summary`: Print a compact summary at the end (scores + issue counts).
- `--security`: Run extra security checks (HTTP header presence, TLS cert info, and OWASP ZAP scan).
- `-h`, `--help`: Show built-in help/usage.
- `[url]`: Optional target URL. Defaults to the “Default target” above.

Notes:
- Flags can be combined in any order: `./audit.sh --security --summary <url>`.
- If you provide multiple URLs, the last one “wins”.

### Examples
Default URL:

```bash
./audit.sh
```

Override URL:

```bash
./audit.sh https://example.com/
```

Help:

```bash
./audit.sh --help
```

Summary view (scores + issue counts):

```bash
./audit.sh --summary
./audit.sh --summary https://example.com/
```

Security mode (includes ZAP; requires Docker for the container baseline scan, otherwise uses local `zap.sh` if present):

```bash
./audit.sh --security
./audit.sh --security https://example.com/
```

### Docker Setup (For OWASP ZAP Baseline)
By default, `--security` will try to run the OWASP ZAP baseline scan in a Docker container (`ghcr.io/zaproxy/zaproxy:stable`).

If Docker is not installed or not running, the script will fall back to local `zap.sh` (if installed). If neither is available, it will skip the ZAP step.

Debian/Kali install:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y docker.io
sudo systemctl enable --now docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```

Important: group membership changes usually require logging out and back in (or starting a new shell) before `docker` works without `sudo`.

Quick check:

```bash
docker --version
docker info
```

Security + summary:

```bash
./audit.sh --security --summary
./audit.sh --security --summary https://example.com/
```

## Output
Each run creates a timestamped folder in `reports/` with:
- Lighthouse HTML and JSON reports
- `pa11y.txt`
- `broken-links.txt`
- `smoke.txt`
- `homepage.png`
- `security.txt` (when `--security` is used)
- `zap.txt` and `zap/` artifacts (when `--security` and Docker are available)
